# File Operation Examples

## Lesson 1 - Writing to a file

1. Write random integers to a file named randData.txt
2. Range of random numbers: [1, 100]
3. User specifies quantity of random values to store in file

Source code: [lesson1.py](lesson1.py)<br><br>

## Lesson 2 - Writing to a file using with open

Python 3.8.1 Input and Output documentation, 7.2 Reading and Writing Files, states that it is good practice to use the *with* keyword when dealing with file objects. The advantage is that the file is properly closed, even if an exception is raised at some point in program execution. In other words, you do not have to call the close function when using with open. https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/inputoutput.html <br>

```
with open('randData.txt', 'w') as writer:
        count = 0
        while count < totalNumbers:

            randomValue = generateRandomNumber(1, 500)
            # can only write a string to a file, append space
            writer.write(str(randomValue) + ' ')
            count += 1

        writer.write('\n')          
```


Source code: [lesson2.py](lesson2.py)<br><br>

## Lesson 3 - read method

1. User inputs file name to read
2. The file object read method reads the file's contents
3. Prints data read and its type

The file object read method reads an entire files contents. When the file is opened in text mode, it returns a string. In binary mode, it returns a bytes object. May specify the quantity of data with the size parameter. `f.read(size)`

Test with the files: randData.txt and dogBreeds.txt. Note randData.txt is generated by running either lesson1 or lesson2 first.

Source code: [lesson3.py](lesson3.py)<br><br>


## Lesson 4 - File open failure, exception handling

1. User inputs file name to read
2. The file object readline method reads the file's contents line by line.
3. Prints each line read

Test with the file dogBreeds.txt


Source code: [lesson4.py](lesson4.py)<br><br>